## Lookups folder documentation

This folder contains files mapping several coding systems to their meanings and more information if available.
The `parquet` files in this folder are the following:

#### Hospital-related lookups
- **ehr_diagnosis_icd9**, includes the ICD9 codes (recorded in hospital admissions), their meanings and categories. Causes of death can also be recorded in the form of ICD9 codes.
- **ehr_diagnosis_icd10**, includes the ICD10 codes (recorded in hospital admissions), their meanings and categories. Causes of death can also be recorded in the form of ICD10 codes.
- **ehr_diagnosis_phecodes**, includes the phecodes diagnosis codes, their meanings and categories. **Note that this is a custom version of the original file**,
generated by BenevolentAI Translational Medicine Scientists. More information about phecodes can be found here https://phewascatalog.org/.
- **ehr_procedures_opcs3**, includes the OPCS3 operation/procedure codes (recorded in hospital admissions), their meanings and categories.
- **ehr_procedures_opcs4**, includes the OPCS4 operation/procedure codes (recorded in hospital admissions), their meanings and categories.

#### GP-related lookups
- **ehr_diagnosis_read2**, includes the READ2 codes (recorded during GP visits), their meanings and categories.
- **ehr_diagnosis_read2**, includes the READ3 codes (recorded during GP visits), their meanings and categories.

#### UKBB-related lookups
- **ukbiobank_assessment_centre_fields**, is the **main** lookup for all UKBB recorded fields. It contains information about the field_ids, their meanings,
their units of measurements etc.
- **ukbiobank_metabolomics_fields**, is the **main** lookup for all metabolomics fields. It contains information about the field_ids, their meanings,
their units of measurements etc.
- **ukbiobank_ethnicity**, includes the several codes used for different ethnicities and their meanings.
- **ukbiobank_diagnosis_self_reported_20002**, includes the self-reported diagnosis codes recorded in the assessment centre visits in UKBB, their meanings and categories.
More informationa about this field can be found here https://biobank.ndph.ox.ac.uk/showcase/field.cgi?id=20002
- **ukbiobank_medications_self_reported_20003**, includes the reported medication codes recorded in the assessment centre visits in UKBB, their meanings and categories.
More informationa about this field can be found here https://biobank.ndph.ox.ac.uk/showcase/field.cgi?id=20003
- **ukbiobank_procedures_self_reported_20004**, includes the reported procedure/operation codes recorded in the assessment centre visits in UKBB, their meanings and categories.
More informationa about this field can be found here https://biobank.ndph.ox.ac.uk/showcase/field.cgi?id=20004

#### Parent lookup and conventions
- All lookups are referenced in the `parent_lookup.parquet` together with a short-description.
- All lookups containg the coding information under the column **coding** and the human-readable information under the column **meaning**.
- The lookups that refer to ontologies that could be used for a cohort definition have a value of True under the column
**config_use**, as they can be used in a disease config.
